POI (Proof of Identity) documents
containing Name and Photo
1. 	Passport
2. PAN Card
3. Ration/ PDS Photo Card
4. Voter ID
5. Driving License
6. Government Photo ID Cards/ Service photo identity card
issued by PSU
7. 	NREGS Job Card
8. Photo ID issued by Recognized Educational Institution
9. Arms License
10. Photo Bank ATM Card
11. Photo Credit Card
12. Pensioner Photo Card
13. Freedom Fighter Photo Card
14. Kissan Photo Passbook
15. CGHS/ ECHS Photo Card
16. Address Card having Name and Photo issued by
Department of Posts
17. Certificate of Identity having photo issued by Gazetted
Officer or Tehsildar on UIDAI standard certificate format
for enrolment/ update
18. Disability ID Card/ handicapped medical certificate
issued by the respective State/ UT Governments/
Administrations
19. Bhamashah Card/Jan-Aadhaar card issued by Govt. of
Rajasthan
20. Certificate from Superintendent/ Warden/ Matron/ Head
of Institution of recognized shelter homes or orphanages
etc. on UIDAI standard certificate format for enrolment/
update
21. Certificate of Identity having photo issued by MP or
MLA or MLC or Municipal Councilor on UIDAI standard
certificate format for enrolment/ update
22. Certificate of Identity having photo issued by Village
Panchayat Head or Mukhiya or its equivalent authority
(for rural areas) on UIDAI standard certificate format for
enrolment/ update
23. Gazette notification for name change
24. Marriage certificate with photograph
25. RSBY Card
26. SSLC book having candidates photograph
27. ST/ SC/ OBC certificate with photograph
28. School Leaving Certificate (SLC)/ School Transfer
Certificate (TC), containing name and photograph
29. Extract of School Records issued by Head of School
containing name and photograph
30. Bank Pass Book having name and photograph
31. Certificate of Identity containing name and photo issued
by Recognized Educational Institution signed by Head
of Institute on UIDAI standard certificate format for
enrolment/ update.
32. Certificate of identity containing Name, DOB and
Photograph issued by Employees’ Provident Fund
Organisation (EPFO) on UIDAI standard certificate
format for enrolment/ update
POR (Proof of Relationship) documents containing
Name of applicant and Name of HoF (Head of Family)
1. 	PDS Card
2. MNREGA Job Card
3. CGHS/ State Government/ ECHS/ ESIC Medical card
4. Pension Card
5. Army Canteen Card
6. Passport
7. 	Birth Certificate issued by Registrar of Birth, Municipal
Corporation and other notified local government bodies
like Taluk, Tehsil etc.
8. Any other Central/ State government issued family
entitlement document
9. Marriage Certificate issued by the government
10. Address card having name and photo issued by
Department of Posts
11. Bhamashah Card/Jan-Aadhaar card issued by Govt. of
Rajasthan
12. Discharge card/ slip issued by Government hospitals for
birth of a child
13. Certificate of Identity having photo issued by MP or
MLA or MLC or Municipal Councillor or Gazetted Officer
on UIDAI standard certificate format for enrolment/
update
14. Certificate of Identity having photo and relationship with
HoF issued by Village Panchayat Head or Mukhiya or its
equivalent authority (for rural areas) on UIDAI standard
certificate format for enrolment/ update
DOB (Date of Birth) documents
containing Name and DOB
1. 	Birth Certificate
2. SSLC Book/ Certificate
3. Passport
4. Certificate of Date of Birth issued by Group A Gazetted
Officer on UIDAI standard certificate format for
enrolment/ update
5. A certificate (on UIDAI standard certificate format for
enrolment/ update) or ID Card having photo and Date
of Birth (DOB) duly signed and issued by a Government
authority
6. Photo ID card having Date of Birth, issued by
Recognized Educational Institution
7. 	PAN Card
8. Marksheet issued by any Government Board or
University
9. Government Photo ID Card/ Photo Identity Card issued
by PSU containing DOB
LIST OF ACCEPTABLE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR VERIFICATION
02nd Nov, 2020

-- 1 of 6 --

• Bring original documents for Enrolment/ Update. No photocopy required.
• Original documents are scanned and given back to you.
10. Central/ State Pension Payment Order
11. Central Government Health Service Scheme Photo Card
or Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme Photo card
12. School Leaving Certificate (SLC)/ School Transfer
Certificate (TC), containing Name and Date of Birth
13. Extract of School Records issued by Head of School
containing Name, Date of Birth and Photograph
14. Certificate of Identity containing Name, DOB and Photo
issued by Recognized Educational Institution signed by
Head of Institute on UIDAI standard certificate format
for enrolment/ update
15. Certificate of identity containing Name, DOB and
Photograph issued by Employees’ Provident Fund
Organisation (EPFO) on UIDAI standard certificate
format for enrolment/ update
1. 	Passport
2. Bank Statement/ Passbook
3. Post Office Account Statement/ Passbook
4. Ration Card
5. Voter ID
6. Driving License
7. 	Government Photo ID cards/ service photo identity card
issued by PSU
8. Electricity Bill (not older than 3 months)
9. Water Bill (not older than 3 months)
10. Telephone Landline Bill (not older than 3 months)
11. Property Tax Receipt (not older than 1 year)
12. Credit Card Statement (not older than 3 months)
13. Insurance Policy
14. Signed Letter having Photo from Bank on letterhead
15. Signed Letter having Photo issued by registered
Company on letterhead
16. Signed Letter having Photo issued by Recognized
Educational Institution on letterhead or Photo ID having
address issued by Recognized Educational Institution
17. NREGS Job Card
18. Arms License
19. Pensioner Card
20. Freedom Fighter Card
21. Kissan Passbook
22. CGHS/ ECHS Card
23. Certificate of Address having photo issued by MP or
MLA or MLC or Gazetted Officer or Tehsildar on UIDAI
standard certificate format for enrolment/ update
24. Certificate of Address issued by Village Panchayat head
or its equivalent authority (for rural areas) on UIDAI
standard certificate format for enrolment/ update
25. Income Tax Assessment Order
26. Vehicle Registration Certificate
27. Registered Sale/ Lease/ Rent Agreement
28. Address Card having Photo issued by Department of
Posts
29. Caste and Domicile Certificate having Photo issued by
State Govt
30. Disability ID Card/ handicapped medical certificate
issued by the respective State/ UT Governments/
Administrations
31. Gas Connection Bill (not older than 3 months)
32. Passport of Spouse
33. Passport of Parents (in case of Minor)
34. Allotment letter of accommodation issued by Central/
State Govt. (not more than 3 years old)
35. Marriage Certificate issued by the Government,
containing address
36. Bhamashah Card/Jan-Aadhaar card issued by Govt. of
Rajasthan
37. Certificate from Superintendent/ Warden/ Matron/ Head
of Institution of recognized shelter homes or orphanages
etc. on UIDAI standard certificate format for enrolment/
update
38. Certificate of Address having photo issued by Municipal
Councillor on UIDAI standard certificate format for
enrolment/ update
39. Identity Card issued by recognized educational
institutions
40. SSLC book having photograph
41. School Identity card
42. School Leaving Certificate (SLC)/ School Transfer
Certificate (TC), containing Name and Address
43. Extract of School Records containing Name, Address
and Photograph issued by Head of School
44. Certificate of Identity containing Name, Address and
Photo issued by Recognized Educational Institution
signed by Head of Institute on UIDAI standard certificate
format for enrolment/ update
45. Certificate of identity containing Name, DOB and
Photograph issued by Employees’ Provident Fund
Organisation (EPFO) on UIDAI standard certificate
format for enrolment/ update
POA (Proof of Address) documents
containing Name and Address
LIST OF ACCEPTABLE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS FOR VERIFICATION

-- 2 of 6 --

Resident’s Recent
Colour Photograph
3.5cm x 4.5 cm
Cross Signed and
Cross Stamped
by the Certifier.
NB: DO NOT
OVERLAP WITH
TEXT BOXES
Signature of the Resident/
Thumb/ Finger Impression
CERTIFICATE FOR AADHAAR ENROLMENT/ UPDATE
Resident’s Details
Instructions: All details to be filled in Block Letters 	(To be valid for 3 months from date of issue)
To be printed on plain A4 paper size; 	Not required to print on letter head;
Aadhaar Number:
(For update only)
Full Name:
C/o:
House No./ Bldg./ Apt:
Street/ Road/ Lane:
Landmark:
Area/ Locality/ Sector:
Village/ Town/ City:
Post Office:
District:
State:
PIN Code:
Date of Birth:
Resident 	Non-Resident Indian (NRI) 	New Enrolment 	Update Request
Certifier’s Details (To be filled by the certifier Only)
Name of the Certifier:
Designation:
Office Address:
Contact Number:
Signature & Stamp of the Certifier
NOTE: This format is applicable for POI documents at SI. Nos. 17, 20, 21, 22, 31 & 32; POA documents at SI. Nos. 23, 24, 37, 38, 44 & 45; POR documents at SI. Nos. 13
& 14 DOB documents at SI. Nos. 4, 5, 14 & 15 of Schedule II of the Aadhaar (Enrolment and Update) Regulations, 2016, as amended from time to time.
D 	D 	M 	M 	Y 	Y 	Y 	Y
Gazetted Officer - Group A
Village Panchayat Head or Mukhiya
Gazetted Officer - Group B
MP/ MLA/ MLC/ Muncipal Councilor
Tehsildar
Head of Recognized Educational Institution
Superintendent/ Warden/ Matron/ Head of Institution
of Recognized shelter homes/ Orphanages
EPFO Officer
I hereby certify above mentioned details of the resident
and I am a.... (Tick appropriate box below) 	No overwriting 	Issue date is filled 	Resident’s signature 	Certifier’s details
Resident’s Photo is cross signed and cross stamped (paper to photo or photo to paper)
Checklist for Certifier

-- 3 of 6 --



-- 4 of 6 --

INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILLING UP CERTIFICATE FOR AADHAAR ENROLMENT/ UPDATE
A. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS Please read the below instructions carefully before filling the application form
The Application Form consists of two parts, i.e., Resident details and Certifier details.
A Sample filled form is provided inline with the instructions for reference. Residents are advised to also view the sample filled form provided
after reading these instructions.
Please note: Incomplete or inappropriately-filled application form will not be accepted.
Please follow the instructions given below while filling the form:
• Certificate has to be printed on Plain paper.
• Use CAPITAL LETTERS only, as shown in the image below –
Incorrect Correct
• Use standard fonts and avoid stylized writing.
• Use black or blue ball point pen only. Do NOT fill the application form with ink-pen or pencil.
• Put a tick marks (✓), in the boxes where you have to select options as your answer and leave the other option(s) blank.
• Write clearly within the boxes without touching the boundaries. Try and write in the centre of the box, as shown in the image below–
Incorrect Correct
• Leave one box blank after each complete word, while filling up the boxes.
Incorrect Correct
• Do NOT write “NA” or “N/A” or “NOT APPLICABLE” in any boxes in the form to convey that the column is not relevant for your case.
Leave that column blank.
B. FIELD-WISE GUIDELINES FOR FILLING UP “CERTIFICATE FOR AADHAAR ENROLMENT/ UPDATE”- Resident section
Ensure all the fields are filled properly, as per below instructions.
S No Filed Name General Instructions
1 Date of Issue • Specify the date in DD-MM-YYYY format.
• Ensure the Certificate is submitted within 3 months of date of issue.
• Enrolment or Update Request will be rejected if Date of Issue is blank or Certificate has
expired.
2 Resident Category • Specify the resident is native Resident of India or belongs to Non Resident Indian (NRI)
Category
3 Enrolment type • Specify the current request is either for obtaining a Aadhaar card which is known as
“New Enrolment” or for updating an existing Aadhaar details which is known as “Update
Request”.
4 Aadhaar Number • Mention your Aadhaar Number.
• In case of Enrolment, Kindly leave it blank.
• In case of Update, it is mandatory to specify the aadhaar number.
5 Full Name • Mention the name of Resident.
• Name shall be mentioned in the format as to be recorded in the Aadhaar.
6 C/o • Mention the Care of (C/o) if required in the address field.
• This field can be left blank as well.
7 House No/ Bldg./ Apt: • Mention the House Number, Building Name or Apartment Name as per the address.
8 Street/Road/ Lane • Mention Street Name, Road & Lane of the address.
9 Landmark • Mention the Landmark near your address.
• This field can be left blank as well, if not required.
10 Area/ Locality/ Sector • Mention Area/ Locality/ Sector of your address.
11 Village/ Town/ City • Mention Village/ Town/ City of your address.
12 Post Office • Mention the nearest post office of your address.
• This filed can be left blank.
13 District • Mention the District of your address.
r a m e s h R A M E S H
R A M E S H G U P T A R A M E S H G U P T A

-- 5 of 6 --

14 State • Mention the State of your address.
15 Pin Code • Mention the pincode of your address.
16 Date of Birth • Mention the Date of Birth.
17 Signature • Resident shall put his/her Signature in the box specified for signature.
• Illiterate Resident can provide Thumb or Finger impression.
18 Resident Photo • Resident shall paste latest color photograph of size 3.5 cm X 4.5 cm.
• Ensure photo is pasted in the space provided. It shall not overlap in text boxes.
• Photo needs to be cross signed by the certifier.
• Photo needs to be cross stamped by the certifier.
C. FIELD-WISE GUIDELINES FOR FILLING UP “CERTIFICATE FOR AADHAAR ENROLMENT/ UPDATE”- Certifier section
Kindly ensure all the fields are filled properly by the Certifier, as per below instructions.
S No Filed Name General Instructions
1 Name of Certifier • Mention the name of Certifier
2 Designation and office
name
• Specify the designation and office name of the Certifier.
3 Office Address • Specify the complete address of the certifier, along with Department name.
4 Contact Number • Specify the contact details of the certifier.
5 Certifier Type • Mention the certifier type by tick (✓) mark on one of the box provided against below
mentioned categories:
o Gazetted Officer - Group A
o Village Panchayat Head or Mukhiya
o Gazetted Officer - Group B
o MP/ MLA/ MLC/ Muncipal Councilor
o Tehsildar
o Head of Recognized Educational Institution
o Superintendent/ Warden/ Matron/ Head of Institution of Recognized shelter homes/
Orphanages
o EPFO Officer
6 Checklist for Certifier • Verify the below checklist by putting tick (✓) mark on the boxes:
o No overwriting
o Issue date is filled
o Resident’s signature
o Certifier’s details
o Resident’s Photo is cross signed and cross stamped (paper to photo or photo to
paper)
o Please ensure that complete form is duly filled, and all boxes of checklist all
selected.
7 Sign & Stamp of the
certifier
• Provide certifier’s signature and stamp in the space specified.
D. IMPORTANT INSTRUCTIONS
Below are few important steps that resident shall ensure before submitting the form:
• Certificate must be printed on Plain paper.
• Form must be submitted within 3 months of date of issue.
• Ensure No overwriting in the form.
• Date of issue must be filled properly in DD-MM-YYYY format.
• Resident signature or thumb impression is must.
• Certifier details must be filled in properly.
• Latest colored photograph of 3.5cm X 4.5 cm should be pasted within the defined area.
• Certifier cross sign & cross stamp must be available on the resident photograph.
• Certifier complete details must be filled in.

-- 6 of 6 --

